And I chuckle at, they won't know, some of them, Vet
Village? What was that? And, of course, it'll take
them a good many weeks to learn the old Aggie lingo.
Screamin' Owl? Screamin' Owl Nelson? Notes
Nance? Jock Woods? Dr. Nance, that's the one I was
thinking of, Dr. Nance. I enjoyed his poetry. But
the activity of the vets in the campus life, they
were well integrated into it. And the Student Life
Committee, which at that time was, I think, the big
committee of students. That was kind of the
ultimate committee. They were well represented
on that. And there was no effort by the veterans to
politically dominate student life? No, I don't
think so. No more so than the Corps. There was not a
veteran organization candidate for student body
president or anything like that? If there was, I
don't remember it. I've never heard of it. Again,
the relationships were remarkably good. Then you
go back as a sophomore, and when do you decide to go
over and join the Corps? I hate to say this, but one
of the main motivations was the money. Because you
got paid on the contract. So I decided, and by this
time, I'd been around it enough that I liked it.
Just going back to that point I made earlier, in the
Navy, the camaraderie on board ship and that sort
of thing. And I could see that the guys in the Corps
kind of had a thing going that we didn't. And I'm not
being married, but I thought, this is a good thing,
and I'll get paid for it in science. And so I just
decided to go to the Corps. When did you do it? I had
between my sophomore and junior year because I
started out on a contract basis. Do you remember
what the financial reward was? I want to say like
$45 a month or something like that. Of course, it
was for uniforms, which took care of the clothing
problem. You didn't have to buy clothing. And then
I went into a veteran outfit. And a lot of us, you
know, they had two or three companies of veterans.
And so we didn't hassle one another. Did y'all get a
nickname, your outfit? No, I started out as B-Vets
is all it was. We didn't have all those. I don't
think they have all those names like they do now.
And it was Army? It was Army ROTC, yep. That's what I
meant, not Army Air Corps. No, I don't recall an Air
Force. What separate unit? What dormitory? It was
the one, 12. I think it was 12. Is that the last one
up? Down at Duncan. Yeah, right across from
Duncan. Describe how a, is a junior, a frog? Well,
yeah. A transfer? A transfer. But that office, we
didn't do all this hassling around. So even the
freshmen in your outfit were veterans?
I'm not sure we had any freshmen. I think we were all
probably juniors. I don't recall any freshman
veterans. Did you all get underclassmen to do the
chores for you? No, we didn't do that. Really? No,
that was not something we did. We didn't have any
underclassmen in there. I never thought about
that, but we didn't have any freshmen. Were you all
fully accepted by the civilian part of the Corps?
Yeah, I think so. I think they kind of didn't like it
that we didn't do some of the hassling around that
they did, but it never got any kind of a problem at
all. In the dining hall, did you all not have then at
your table the kind of routine where the freshmen
served everybody, every upperclassman? No, no,
we didn't have that. We were very democratic. On
dining hall, I think
it was pretty good, really. We didn't, of course,
didn't have any choice. There were no cafeteria
lines, anything like that. We took what they
served us, and we had, of course, every table had
its waiter, and they were paid waiters. You know,
the guys had a job. That was the head waiter job, and
that was Bert Reyes, as I remember, was our head
waiter. That was a good job. That was a plum job. But
I think the food was, I don't remember many
complaints about it. Did you all become part of the
routine of the nicknames for the food? Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. We took all that on, yeah. What were your
favorite food? Oh, I don't remember any favorite
food. I just remember it was pretty good. You know,
it was certainly as good as the food we got in the
Army or the Navy. Was there plenty of it? Oh, yeah.
Yeah. We got, never one hundred. and described
then a, once you're over in the Corps, go through a
typical day. When did it start and how and when did
it end? Well, of course, we had the regular drills
and things that anybody had, but there was, I guess
I would have to say that we did not have the hassle
that the regular units did. But that didn't seem
to... create any kind of cleavage between their
operation, their living, and ours. We mixed
together,
but as far as the routine, it was just like the
regular military units did then, except we didn't
have freshmen and sophomores. But you all marched
into trial? Yes. And had a early morning
inspection. You fell out for an inspection. Yeah,
but I don't recall too much of that. Maybe there's
more of that now than there was then. Then in the
afternoons, did you all drill? We drilled. We went
through the whole ROTC routine. Were there
demerits when people walked the bull run? I don't
recall that in our outfit, but again, we're all
veterans, we're juniors, we're seniors, we
didn't hassle one another like that. And no one
came in and made up your bed, you didn't? Oh no, I
didn't make my own bed. And I see that we were in that
dorm, that was an all-vent dorm, the second,
third, and fourth floors. The bottom floor was the
commandant and the colonel of the corps and his
staff. And then in my I
was
on the corps staff, so I moved down. During your
junior year, did you begin to realize that you were
making progress in moving up in the corps status
toward being one of the officers?
Not really much during my junior. I knew by this
time, I knew I was going to be the editor of the
battalion the next year. And we had two editors. We
had one for the corps and one for the inaugural. And
I was going to be the corps editor. So I knew I'd move
down to the corps staff. Who made that choice? Who
made what choice? The selected Jews editor. How
was that done? Really, Roland Bing did that. There
weren't that many guys who were willing to put in
the time that I did and my co-editor did. He was a guy
named Bill Billingsley, and he was a superb
writer. He was a gifted writer.
So on the masthead, where the staff was listed,
were the two editors listed equally? Yes. And what
title were y'all given? Co-editor. Co-editor.
And did it say veteran? No, but everybody knew. Oh.
And how did y'all divide up the workload? On the
battalion? There really was never any written
rule. We just would sit down together. And we had a
pretty good staff of guys. And we would sign the
things out. And it was a very collegial sort of
thing. We just had worked together for a couple
years, and we knew what each one could do and who
could do what best. It went very well. Were you ever
aware of secret fraternities? Yes. What can you
say about that? I was a member of one. You were? Yes.
You're the second one that has admitted them. Is
that right? Are you at liberty to say which one? I
didn't know. I guess there weren't any. I'm trying
to think of the name of the thing. I don't recall.
Yeah, there were two. T.T.'s? T.T. That was the one
I was in. And the stickers, the swastikas. Okay, I
guess that was the other one. I don't remember that
name, but stickers does sound familiar. I didn't
know it was swastikas, but stickers does sound
familiar. But yeah, I went into one of those when I
was a junior, I guess. How many people were in it?
Gosh, maybe 30 or 35, somewhere around there.
Where did you have meetings? Miss Maggie's. Don't
know Miss Maggie's? No, this is down in Bryant. She
was a... Was that the boarding house? It was a
boarding house, yeah. All-you-can-eat kind of
place? Well, no. No, I don't think... She would
have people in, but I don't think it was a boarding
house. I'm not real sure what the parentage of the
thing was, but she apparently had been, if you can
use the term loosely, the house mother of this
group for a number of years. And I guess that maybe
we're about 30 of us. And how often did you all get
together? Not very often. Once a week? I don't
think it was that often. I'm really kind of hazy on
it. But we had to be real careful because, boy, that
was an announcement to the loaners. And were there
people from every year? No, I think they were
mostly juniors and seniors. Did you apply? No, so
you were asked. And I don't even remember who asked
me to tell the truth. We had to be so careful because
they threw you out of school. And what was the
purpose of the organization? Oh, it was just a
secret organization. We didn't do anything. It
was just kind of special good friends type thing,
like fraternity. Okay, I had wondered, was one of
the purposes to help keep campus student
leadership within that group? No, it wasn't.
There was no overt effort. But a number of the guys
who were in it were the student leaders. but not
because they were in it, they became, they got in it
because they were students. Alright, in your own
face, did you become, the fact that you were part of
that group didn't help you become the head of the
back? Oh no, it had absolutely nothing to do with
it. In fact, I probably became part of the group
because I was head of the back. And my roommate, who
was Corps Commander, we had at least one
yellow-headed.
And
I presume never, never, never was there any
mention in the battalion. Oh, no. Did the
administration ever try to do anything? They were
very much interested in it, but they never could
find out much about it. Although there was one
member, I guess it's safe to say that now, Colonel
Joe Davis had been a member of it. But those guys
never took a part in it as students. And it never, we
never tried to influence anything. You became a
member of that because you were something else.
We're back, but we're going out again. We don't
want to bother you. Okay. All right. As far as I,
well, I shouldn't say as I know. That's too strong.
I think that Sterling Evans was also a member of
that secret organization. He's the class of 21.
Exactly. I know it had been around a long time. And I
believe Dr. Harrington later tried to wipe them
out. Oh, yeah. He was very much opposed to it.
Nobody that wasn't in it liked it. Was there any
kind of initiation that you remember?
I can't remember. Was there any kind of symbol that
y'all wore? No. Handshakes? There was a
handshake. Kind of a double grip sort of thing. Was
there a magic word or phrase? No, no. There was the
handshake. But the more I had thought about this,
but I'm absolutely convinced that you were in it,
you were invited in it because of what you were and
you didn't get to be what you were because you were
in it. But it was really frowned on because it
smacked of a fraternity. And there had never been,
were there ever any reunions after graduation?
Well, not that I know of. Because, you know, I went
to meetings in Harvard. But I think, I'm trying to
think, Bob Burnham had something to do with it. I
can't remember what. Let's see, Campus
Characters. Was Pinky there then? Pinky was
there, yeah. What was Pinky doing there? What
Pinky always did. He was
the booster without limits. Where did he live? No,
I think he lived off campus. I'm not sure of that.
Describe Pinky. Make believe I'd never seen him.
You've never seen him? No, make believe I have.
Make believe you've never seen him? He was a...
rather frail or fragile looking man, almost
hyperactive, I would say, and would talk A&M at the
drop of a hat to anybody who would listen. And he
loved to tell the story of how he claimed
responsibility for giving A&M
a hook into the permanent university program.
Now, whether that was true or not, I don't know. I
want to say that he claimed to have been a member of
the board of directors at one time, but... He was.
He was a board member back in the 20s. Okay, well
then, that's the origin of that claim. I have no
reason to doubt it, but he was an A&M... Did you all
see him much? Oh, yeah. He was around campus all the
time, yes. The only one who was as vocal as Pinky was
Lupo, but Pinky had some... That's the next man.
Who was this O'Reilly Lou? O'Reilly Lou was a guy, I
guess he graduated, but he never left the campus,
except to move across the street and open his
store. He was one of those guys that college is the
highlight of his life. Less so with Pinky,
although you could say that, but Pinky He had to
have been something or he wouldn't have gotten on
the Board of Regents. But Lupo never got beyond the
store. Did you and your buddies buy things from
there? From Lupo? Oh, yeah. See, there weren't
that many stores. I think his maybe was the only
bookstore. And did you or anybody there that you
knew ever borrow money from him? I never borrowed
money, but a lot of guys did. When McQuillan would
run out, you could go to Lupo. But everybody knew
when you borrowed from Lupo. He loved to put sorts
in. He had a ski one time that he was going to. He
thought there needed to be bicycles around the
campus. You may have heard this story. And so he
bought a lot of used bicycles. And I think it was, I
don't remember, he had them painted yellow or
something like that. And the idea was if you saw one
of those bicycles, you could take it and go
somewhere. But I know they all disappeared pretty
quickly.
You're in the Corps as a junior. And then as the year
progresses, you are going to become you've become
a member of core staff and was that directly
related to being the editor of the back yes that was
a core information option to go back to something
you asked about the initiation into the tts i don't
think there was i was trying to think of initiation
there was initiation in the ross volunteers oh oh
now i know very little about that i'd be
appreciated that you were sharing everything you
can remember about the RVs. Well, it was a good
organization. It was an honor guard, just like it
is now. And I think it was only juniors and seniors.
I guess maybe that's still true. Only juniors and
seniors. I don't remember how you were tapped for
it, but there was a pretty heavy initiation into
that. How did you learn you had been selected? I had
the slightest recollection of learning Did you
apply? I don't think you applied. I think you were
probably the military combat or PMS&T staff
probably decided who should be in. And that was at
the end of your junior year? No, because I was in it
two years. So I must have gone in. What kind of way? I
can't remember. Because I was just in the Corps two
years. But I think I was... I think I was in the RVs
two years. Maybe not. Maybe I was just in the RVs one
year. I don't remember. The uniform, the RV
uniform? Just like it is now. I don't know. I don't
think they had quite the sashes that I think they
had. It was the whites. And about how many?
Hang on. I'm going to back up. I was in a junior year,
because I remember I had a picture one time. I'd
gone to a big dance on campus, and I was a junior, and
I was in my whites. I don't know how I got in it, but I
liked that. And do you remember how much those
lights cost? I don't know where I got the money to do
it either, but I got them. And what variety of
activities were the RVs officially part of? I'm
going to say that they're pretty much like they are
now, just an honor guard for things. I don't
remember anybody coming to campus where we had a
formation at that time. They brought us down one
time to march in the Fiesta Parade down in San
Antonio. We thought we were coming down to be
escorts for some of the duchesses, and it turned
out they just wanted us to stand around looking
good. We were all disgusted. But again, that was
the hitchhiking Yeah, we were still hitchhiking.
I remember my dad and mother lived in a little house
over by Jefferson High School, and five of us spent
the night there and laid across the double bed. So,
are these hitchhiked? Oh, yeah. Oh, sure. And you
had your uniform all folded up? Well, hanging on a
hanger. But did you carry it hanging? Yeah. Oh,
really? Oh, yeah. Now, a lot of times, when I say a
lot of times... Some of the guys had cars, you know,
and of course, fill up the cars. During the, the,
did y'all ever escort, was there a gubernatorial
inaugural during? I don't remember, I don't
remember it, no. So, you don't remember any big
celebrity occasion? No. It may be that, you know,
that's 50 years ago. I could have forgotten one. I
hear you. Let's see. A court trip as a junior and
senior. Describe that. Well, again, we
hitchhiked, or if you're lucky enough to have a
friend who had a car, you could ride with them. They
were great fun. They had midnight yell practices.
You almost always had a date. I loved the marching.
I remember marching in Waco, Austin, I don't
remember marching. Yeah, I marched once in Fort
Worth, I think. Houston. I don't remember
marching in Houston. We may have, but I don't
recall. And how did the crowds in those cities
react? Oh, they loved us. Yeah, it was a big deal.
Never any problems, except midnight yell
practice. Got out of hand a couple times. Such as?
Yeah, a little too much drinking, and you always
have the fringe element. cause ruckus, nothing
real serious. Now, normally for a court trip, did
you leave College Station Saturday morning? No,
you had to leave Friday. No, we had to leave Friday.
Friday. Or Thursday.
Were there any football games during those four
years that you remember as being special? Yes. I
remember when we played Texas in Boston, and we
tied. and I think it was 14-14, and Ray Whitaker
caught a pass, and I remember that distinctly. It
was, I think, the first, someone says the first
time we'd ever crossed their goal line. I'm not
sure that was true. I think it was the first time
Texas had not won at home against the Aggies for
many, many years. And it was an exciting game. That
one stands out. And do you remember any pranks
during an Aggie football game?
Well, of course, the story of Red Duke and going up
and kidnapping the Baylor Bear. Yeah, just put
that on tape. Yeah, well, this was really
secondhand, but Red was the yelliger, and Red was
from Hillsboro. And Red and I roomed together one
summer. That was an experience in itself.
Oh. Let's describe that. Describe Red as a
roommate. Well, you have to know Red, really. He's
a... He's a great guy. He'd do anything for you. But
it's like living with, let's see, what could I
compare
it to? There is no comparison. Lots of energy. Oh,
absolute energy. Totally unpredictable. Sense
of humor. Good sense of humor. People were always
coming in and calling on him. He was not the tidiest
roommate in the world, to say the least. And he did
his own thing. What was his major? He was a business
major. One time, as I remember the story, he went up
and sold a pound of blood to get some money to go on a
date or something. I don't know when that was. But
then one time he got in his daddy's brand new car and
he rolled it and it came out without a scratch. He
was always into activities.
Did he make high grades? Average grades. Average.
Average. Talking about Red Duke. Oh, thank you.
Thank you. Did you tell my story on Red? About the
plant garden? Mm-hmm. I just was telling you. He
did that for a girlfriend he was going to give a
birthday present to. Is that what it was? He didn't
have the money. when he was in high school and
somebody sold him blood. Oh, my goodness. Yeah, at
that time, what was his ambition? What did y'all
think he was going to do fresh on? I don't think he
knew or I don't think he had any idea of being a
doctor. He just wanted to graduate. And, of
course, when the war started, he went to Germany,
as I remember. And he was already red. I mean, that
was his nickname. Oh, yes. Was he a popular guy?
Very popular.
Describe the bear capture. Well, he and I don't
know who went up to Waco to get the bear. And they
apparently didn't have any trouble getting the
bear itself. They put it in the car.
Unfortunately, the bear got mad, and he just tore
up the upholstery. caribou tore it up, just ruined
the car inside. And they didn't know what to do with
it. They had this bear, but you heard of a bear by the
tail? Well, that's what they had. And of course,
they didn't want to hurt the bear. So they drove
around a while, and they finally took it out and
tied it up somewhere and called the Baylor campus
security and said, if you want your bear, it's over
here. And that's about as much as I know about this
story. So they didn't get very far down the road
with it. No, the bear was bigger than they were. Did
Red and whomever was with him get into any trouble
at A&M over that? No, I don't think so. I'm not sure
they got caught to tell the truth. I've never heard
of any problems like that. I don't think he got
caught by anybody in authority. Of course, he
worked around campus pretty fast. Alright, we're
back now on campus. I'm looking at various A&M
traditions. Do you by chance remember your first
silver taps? I remember silver taps vividly, but
which was the first one I don't remember. How did it
touch you, the silver taps? I think
it
cemented the realization that this was more than
just a group of students or a campus or a
university. That there was a, again, the word I've
used often is camaraderie. There was a bond that
was bigger than just being in a school at a place at a
time. Oh, that's a great song. In your student
days, did the students take civil tap seriously?
Yes, very seriously. I would hate to think it was
not taken seriously. And where was it held? Down at
the Sully statue.
We didn't have, as I recall,
the salute, the gun, the volley, the rifle volley.
but we did have the
viewers. Yeah. And lights were out. Oh yes. It was
silent. It was silent, yeah. Your junior year, do
you remember a final review? Oh yes, very much.
Describe it.
I think that the recollection that I would prize
the most is that it made me glad that I had gone to the
court because it was something special
and I realized that if you weren't in the court you
missed that it didn't mean you didn't get a lot of
the A&M traditions and activities and quote
fellowship But to me, the core will always be A&M.
And if you're not in that, that's an element of that
experience, that four-year experience, that
you're never going
to hate. The final review, that junior year, you
had acquired some boots. Oh, yeah. Where'd you get
them and how much they cost? What was it? Right.
Okay. How much they cost? $75. Where'd you get that
kind of boot? I don't know. That was a lot of money
then, yeah. But I didn't buy a used pair. I bought a
new pair of boots. And how did you feel when you put
them on? I felt great. Did any special people come
for a final review of that junior year? For you? I
don't think so. I said earlier, and I don't know
that my, my parents may have made one trip to India,
maybe for Mother's Day. Mother's Day was a big
deal. I don't know if it is now, but at that time,
yes.